# Travlr Getaways
## Architecture
Creating this application has required the utilization of a number of technologies with varying implementation and use cases. For the front, customer-facing portion of the application I utilized Express (along with Handlebars) and JavaScript to create a beautiful, responsive web application that allows the user to book and manage their trip reservations. For the administrative side of the application, I utilized Angular to create a Single Page Application (SPA) to allow for the retrieval, creation, editing, and deletion of trips. While the front end utilizes an MVC approach to keep its files neat and orderly, and the administrative side is broken into specific parts, they both utilize JavaScript, making for much easier development of the entire application. The backend used a MongoDB database to store its information because MongoDB fits very nicely within the flow of the application, allowing for the utilization of JavaScript, as well as fitting very nicely within the JSON format.
## Functionality
Though JavaScript and JSON do work very nicely together and JSON looks like a JavaScript object, they differ pretty significantly in terms of function. JSON is a data format, while JavaScript is a programming language. Likewise, JSON is commonly used to store and transport data between the backend and frontend, leveraging JavaScript-like syntax, improving development flow, as everything utilizes JavaScript. Throughout the development process, it was important to refactor the code to limit the amount of repeated code and keep the project neat and easy to work with. One of the ways this was done was by creating a template for the footer and header of the web app, which could then be utilized on each different Handlebar page, increasing code readability. Furthermore, using an MVC approach to the structure of the project was important because it made the code base much easier to understand and work with. The flow is much easier to understand and because of this, when implementing new features on the web app, all it took was wiring up the new parts and voila, it was ready to go.
## Testing
Once everything was wired up, it was important to test every aspect of data retrieval from the database and ensure that as the user interacts with the database, the changes are actually being reflected within said database. This is where it is important to list all of the applications API Endpoints to ensure that each one is properly tested (this should be done before the development process, not as an afterthought). This gets a bit harder to do as the security layer comes into effect, as it now requires authentication with the server, as well as a specific access level to make these interactions with the database. This means that you must plan for this ahead of time, making decisions on who can do what to the data and what data exactly can be retrieved, added, modified, or removed. When implementing API Endpoint methods (GET, PUT, POST, DELETE), it is important to test and ensure that the correct data is being accessed and modified, returns the expected data, and handles errors/edge cases correctly and gracefully. To do this it is important to utilize a number of testing methods including unit, integration, and end to end testing.
